# Columbus CSV to GPX

> [!WARNING]
> This is a small personal utility that I've only tested with data generated by my logger. Feel free to open issues if things don't work for you, but include the full CSV so I can understand what's going wrong.

Columbus GPS trackers or data loggers can't seem to add waypoints/POIs when configured to log in GPX mode, despite GPX supporting them. In order to add POIs, the logger needs to be set to CSV mode.

This utility takes Columbus CSV files and converts them to [GPX 1.1](https://www.topografix.com/gpx.asp). This makes them usable in a lot more software and allows for traces to be uploaded to databases like OpenStreetmap.

It's assumed that `OneTrackPerDay` is set to `OFF`, so a file should only contain one track. If that's not the case, please split your tracks beforehand.

## Usage

This utility takes one argument, the path to a CSV file to process. The result of the conversion will be printed on stdout. All errors and help messages go to stderr.

The XML is printed in a human-friendly format with tab-based indentation. If you'd like to get the most compact format, you can pass `-pretty-print=false`.

### Timestamps

This utility sets the timestamp to the start of the 1st of January 1970 (the Unix Epoch). This helps preserve a bit of your privacy when uploading traces to central databases. If you'd like to retain the original timestamp, pass `-reset-timestamp=false`.

If you've configured the `TimeZone` offset on the device to something other than the default, make sure you pass the same one to `-timezone-offset` if you're running with `-reset-timestamp=false`. GPX requires the timestamps to be in UTC, so the correct offset is required to convert the timestamps properly.
